improve docs user story for members to join orgs (#1165)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-cloud-platform/getting-started.md

## Adding an organization

This process creates an **organization account**, which your team members in GitHub or GitLab can join. Organization accounts share custom rules that are written by fellow team members, as well as records of findings and scans. 

1. Sign in to Semgrep Cloud Platform. A dialog box appears.
2. Click **Create an organization**.
![DESCRIPTION](/img/create-an-org.png#md-width)
3. Enter your **Organization display name**. This name typically corresponds to the name of your GitHub or GitLab org.
4. Click **Create**.
5. Your organization is created and you are prompted to start a scan. Instead of starting a scan, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings** in the navigation menu.
6. Click **Source code managers**.
7. Select the source code manager that contains the org to connect to Semgrep Cloud Platform.
![DESCRIPTION](/img/source-code-manager.png#md-width)
8. Follow the steps to connect your source code manager. You can review permissions needed by Semgrep in [Requested permissions for GitHub and GitLab](#requested-permissions-for-github-and-gitlab).

## Joining an organization

:::info Prerequisites

> - Your admin or inviter should have an existing organization (org) in Semgrep that is connected to the org in either GitHub or GitLab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your admin or inviter should have an existing organization (org) in Semgrep that is connected to an org in either GitHub or GitLab.

```

Reviewer: "Inviter" is a bit weird here (funny since we use "invitee" a lot, but I don't hear "inviter" much). I might go with "Your admin or the person inviting you to SCP".

- You must be a member of the GitHub or GitLab org that is connected to Semgrep.
:::

> For **members to join an organization**, perform the following steps to be added to the org:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **members**, perform the following steps to join the org:
```
I'm open to other alternative phrasing here, but the current "to join an organization...to be added to the org" feels heavy and redundant.

1. Sign in to Semgrep Cloud Platform. A **Welcome to Semgrep** dialog box appears.

> 2. Check that the organization under the **Join an organization** button is the correct org to join. If there is more than 1 org, select the org to join.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check that the organization under the **Join an organization** button is the correct org to join. If there is more than one org, select the org to join.

```

Reviewer: I don't think this sentence meets any of the exception criteria in the Google style guide for small numbers, but let me know if I'm mistaken!

Author: I thought it fell under "**Technical quantities**, such as amounts of memory, amounts of disk space, numbers of queries, or usage limits" which is e

Reviewer: Ah I see. I don't feel strongly about it, so feel free to ignore.

![DESCRIPTION](/img/join-an-org.png#md-width)
3. Click **Join an organization**.

## Running scans

### Starting a SAST and SCA scan on a remote repository

<PlatformAddRepo />

#### Detecting GitHub repositories

<PlatformDetectGhRepos />

:::tip Product-specific information
* To learn more about SAST scans on your codebase, see [Getting started with Semgrep Code](/semgrep-code/getting-started).
* To learn more about SCA scans for your third-party dependencies, see [Getting started with Semgrep Supply Chain](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).
* Both products are **free for up to 10 contributors**. See [Usage limits](/usage-limits) to learn more about contributors and usage limits.
:::

### Starting a local repository scan and sending findings to SCP

> You can send scan results from a local repository to Semgrep Cloud Platform. The local repository is a separate **Project** from its remote counterpart so the findings records do not overwrite each other and are kept separate.

Reviewer: I think this is usually true, but is it always true?

Author: There is one case I haven't verified, which is a case when someone pulls an org repo (say semgrep) then uploads findings from semgrep to the org - what happens when another user does that? I'll ask the cloud folks.

Reviewer: I think it might overwrite in that case, potentially. My observation is it's usually `org_name/repo_name` from CI and just `repo_name` locally. 

I was also thinking about if someone goes and reads about environment variables and sets the name, but that's pretty unlikely when they're just getting started.

Author: Fixed in latest, I'll add a screenshot in the main comment body.

To send findings from a local repository, perform the following steps in your command-line interface:

> 1. Login to Semgrep:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Semgrep:

```

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#login

I'll drop a comment on our internal example that uses `login` too :)

Author: Nice catch. This is one of those things I forget about when editing my work! Thank you.

```
semgrep login
```
2. Click the login URL provided. Your are taken to your web browser to complete the login process.
3. Follow any additional steps.
4. After logging in, start a scan in your CLI:
```
semgrep ci
```

:::info

> Many improvements to the Semgrep Cloud Platform experience only work with up-to-date Semgrep CLI versions. For this reason, Semgrep Cloud Platform only supports the 10 most recent minor versions of Semgrep CLI. For example, if the latest release was 0.114.0, all versions greater than 0.104.0 are supported while earlier versions, such as 0.103.0 can be deprecated or can result in failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many improvements to the Semgrep Cloud Platform experience only work with up-to-date Semgrep CLI versions. For this reason, Semgrep Cloud Platform only supports the 10 most recent minor versions of Semgrep CLI. For example, if the latest release was 0.114.0, all versions greater than 0.104.0 are supported, while earlier versions, such as 0.103.0, can be deprecated or can result in failures.

```

1. Sign in to Semgrep Cloud Platform. A dialog box appears.
2. Click **Create an organization**.
![DESCRIPTION](/img/create-an-org.png#md-width)
3. Enter your **Organization display name**. This name typically corresponds to the name of your GitHub or GitLab org.
4. Click **Create**.
5. Your organization is created and you are prompted to start a scan. Instead of starting a scan, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings** in the navigation menu.
6. Click **Source code managers**.
7. Select the source code manager that contains the org to connect to Semgrep Cloud Platform.
![DESCRIPTION](/img/source-code-manager.png#md-width)
8. Follow the steps to connect your source code manager. You can review permissions needed by Semgrep in [Requested permissions for GitHub and GitLab](#requested-permissions-for-github-and-gitlab).
9. Optional: Refer to the instructions in [SSO configuration](/semgrep-cloud-platform/sso/) to set up SSO for your organization.

## Joining an organization

:::info Prerequisites

> - Your admin or person inviting you to Semgrep Cloud Platform should have an existing organization (org) in SCP that is connected to an org in either GitHub or GitLab.

Reviewer: We may want to avoid use of the word "invite" here because folks are not actually invited. Maybe just "Your admin" should be enough?

Author: This is so tricky. I used the term "invite" because that's the language people used to roughly and casually describe their goal, and is the gap we're trying to address because we don't have the functionality in the product per se.

Alternatively, I could remove the above usage of "invite", then explicitly state that Semgrep does not give out email invites, and then instruct admins to tell their team members to sign in after the admin has made an org.

What do you think?

Author: Update: Yeah, I went in this direction :)

- You must be a member of the GitHub or GitLab org that is connected to Semgrep.
:::

For **members**, perform the following steps to join the org:

1. Sign in to Semgrep Cloud Platform. If your administrator has configured SSO, click **Use SSO**. A **Welcome to Semgrep** dialog box appears.
2. Check that the organization under the **Join an organization** button is the correct org to join. If there is more than 1 org, select the org to join.

> ![DESCRIPTION](/img/join-an-org.png#md-width)

Reviewer: Should DESCRIPTION still be here?

Author: Nice catch. Fixed in latest.

* Both products are **free for up to 10 contributors**. See [Usage limits](/usage-limits) to learn more about contributors and usage limits.
:::

### Starting a local repository scan and sending findings to SCP

You can send scan results from a local repository to Semgrep Cloud Platform. The local repository is a separate **Project** from its remote counterpart.

:::caution
For team members of an organization, it is **not** recommended to send local repository scan results to the organization account. When logging in to Semgrep from the CLI through `semgrep login`, ensure that you are signed in SCP as your **personal account**. See [Projects separation between local and remote repositories](#projects-separation-between-local-and-remote-repositories).
:::

To send findings from a local repository, perform the following steps:

1. Ensure that you are signed into Semgrep Cloud Platform in the account you want to send findings to. It is recommended to send local repository findings to your **personal** account.
2. Log in to Semgrep:
```
semgrep login
```

> 2. Click the login URL provided. Your are taken to your web browser to complete the login process.

Reviewer: A lot of CLIs don't allow a direct click on this link - but not sure if that distinction really matters?

Author: Click or copy. In the latest client, I was amazed that my WSL actually automatically opened my windows program. I am truly living in the future, 2 OS in 1. Cygwin could never.

3. Follow any additional steps.
4. After logging in, start a scan in your CLI:
```
semgrep ci
```

> #### Projects separation between local and remote repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Project separation between local and remote repositories
```
Projects sounds a bit odd to me. If we do change this, the link above would need to be changed too.

> The Project slug for a remote repository always takes the form `account-name/repository-name`. The Project slug for a local repository always takes the form `repository-name`. Refer to the following screenshot for an example of both remote and local Projects in a single personal account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Project slug for a remote repository takes the form `account-name/repository-name`. The Project slug for a local repository takes the form `repository-name`. Refer to the following screenshot for an example of both remote and local Projects in a single personal account.
```
we could add "by default", but mostly I just don't think it makes sense to say "always" even if it's just in a getting started page, since it's a configurable value.

Author: Makes sense. I think removing the word "always" or "never" solves it :) Thank you.

> * **For personal accounts:** A local repository scan **never** overwrites findings records of its remote counterpart. They are two separate Projects. Personal accounts only have one team member or user: you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **For personal accounts:** A local repository scan does not overwrite the findings records of its remote counterpart. They are two separate Projects. Personal accounts only have one team member or user: you.
```

> * For **organization accounts**: A local repository scan never overwrites findings records of its remote counterpart, but if two members both send local repository findings, their records can overwrite each other's findings. This is because org accounts can have more than one team member, but all local scans are sent to the same Project slug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **organization accounts**: A local repository scan does not overwrite the findings records of its remote counterpart, but if two members both send local repository findings, their records can overwrite each other's findings. This is because org accounts can have more than one team member, but all local scans are sent to the same Project slug.
```
"their records can overwrite each other's findings" sounds weird here but I can't think of a great replacement. If you can, though, I'm for using it :)

Author: You're right, it's awkward. 

Alternative: if two members both send local repository findings, one set of results may overwrite the other unintentionally.
